# RELG220-s16-s17 #

## Week 2a: (due: 2017-01-17)

---

### 2 publications about translations:

[BAR](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8ezT0-tUjVZSXRPWFF3TmR6eHM/view?usp=sharing)

[Rose Pub](https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B8ezT0-tUjVZVlNpXzJaamRERWc/view?usp=sharing)


---


### Sexual mores from ch. 1

- Read Deuteronomy 22: 13-30
- Consider the questions found on p. 12-13

--

1. What cultural assumptions about marriage and divorce does the law seem to presuppose?
2. What penalties does the law impose on the man who raped the young woman?
3. How could these penalties be considered just punishment for his abuse of the woman?
4. What is your gut-level response to reading this law? Why do you respond this way?
5. How does the penalty for sex with a betrothed or married woman differ from the one resulting from the rape of a non-betrothed woman?
6. From your cultural perspective, what do you think about the justice involved in these laws?

---

### Cultural Context
Interpreting the Bible means being aware of the vast differences between the cultures reflected in the text and our own culture -- much of which we take for granted.

[Southern Suggestions](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m6uNXtOirs8)

[Lyrics: ](https://daleshi5word.wordpress.com/)



---

### Journal samples

--

The central thesis of the writer in the reading is that the culture we live in today is very different from what we read in the bible. This then makes us unaware of what other cultures do and we tend to have to learn about them in order to understand their ways. This makes our understanding of biblical texts difficult to understand the way it was meant for us to understand and obtain.

--

I learned that how I interpret the bible can change when I know the cultural aspect of the passage. Like how in chapter 2 the author explains the marriage process and how it is very different than today’s marriage process. Knowing this changes the way we read and view Jesus’s birth. 


---

## Stories "changed"

I learned that we really don't know the culture of the Bible or the true events of the stories that we know so well. I learned that we have altered the story of many famous bible stories and don't really know the true events that took place.

--

Why is there an alteration to so many things in the bible? Is there a place where the true events of stories we know so well are written?

--

How the Christmas story is told today is so skewed from how it probably was when it really happened. Like how Jesus probably was not even born in a barn. He was probably born in Joseph’s family’s home with his family helping Mary with the whole thing. Also, I thought that it was surprising how sons were so close with their mothers.

--

What other biblical passages am I not getting the full picture of because of my lack of knowledge on biblical culture? How can I apply this new knowledge onto other texts from the bible?

---
## Male and Female

What surprised me about the reading is the importance of Male and Female roles in the bible and how families functioned as one. In modern times males and females are separate and don't know how to be a unit and function as one body. 


--

What surprised me the most while reading was the section in Chapter 1 that discussed the Nativity. I felt that everything I had learned previously about the Nativity was a lie. It shocked me to see that such common ideas from the story such as Mary giving birth to Jesus in a barn, not being able to find an inn, and Mary riding a camel into Bethlehem and giving birth as soon as they entered the city are not actually true. I had read the Nativity accounts in the Gospel before, and although I knew that some things that are commonly believed about the story are not mentioned in the Gospels, I still never really stopped to think about it before. It surprised me that these common ideas of the Nativity came from a book that is not in the Bible or the Gospels and that many people today have not read. I also found it extremely fascinating to learn what really happened in the Nativity and how a misunderstanding of the culture and translation created false ideas such as the barn and the inn. This made me wonder what other stories have been translated or told incorrectly because of this misunderstanding of culture.

---
## Cultural norms
I learned more about the culture of the time of the Bible while reading these two chapters. Additionally, I learned how important it is to understand these cultures in order to fully understand these stories. For example, I remember reading the book of Genesis and being shocked that Jacob sons kill the man who raped their sister. To an average reader, it would seem terrible that these men went out and murdered someone. Now, after reading the chapter, I have a better understanding of honor and how the brothers did what they did in order to restore honor to their family and to their sister. 

--

I enjoyed reading the section of honor in Chapter 2 because it played such a large role in the culture of the time. People who read and study the Bible need to understand how honor affects the decisions and actions of the people in the Bible. Additionally, I learned how women were treated in ancient Israel and I feel like that will help me understand the role of women in the Bible. 

--


This helped me realize that because of the social norms of today's time, it makes it difficult for us to truly understand what we are reading. This made me question every knowledgeable thing I have ever thought to be relevant to today's society.

---
## Surprise and Question

- I was surprised to find out that marriages are set. I also was shocked to find that people are killed publicly for cheating on a spouse.
- I would like to know just how much we take the Bible for granted? I also would like to know to what extent is it ok to question what we have ever learned about the Bible?

---

### Group discussion and presentations

- Marriage and Family
- Male and Female roles
- Honor/Shame
- Bartering & Negotiating
- Patronage
- Hospitality
- Family compounds, villages & cities
- Houses in Bible times
- Crops and animals
