
## Some examples from your journals

### Varieties of approach to ‘religion’


As a Christian I do believe that fellow Christians in my community have their own separate point of view on what being a Christian means to them. As the writer states, we all have our own views on religion based on our psychological state of mind. Therefore, the things that I may not believe to be true in the practice of Christianity, others may believe whole heartedly. The reading also connects with my art history class. During the Italian renaissance artist in Florence Italy continuously painted paintings of the virgin Marry and Jesus. This relates to the reading because as the writer also discussed religion is built off the history of the community, and in that particular community Christ was their backbone.

--

"I would like to know how much our thoughts really affect our views on religion. What is the difference between a religious event and a political event? Is religion just a sense of feeling secure? Is religion sociable? Is religion truly more than a belief?"

--

I had never really thought about the question of "what does it mean to be a religion" or "what makes a religion, a religion?" so it was kind of surprising to see that the idea is so complex and deep but can still be summarized mainly in a sentence. I was also surprised to see the author reference systems such as Marxism and use their various definitions to explain how an entirely non-religious (to the point of almost being antireligious) movement is, in a roundabout sort of way, still a religion in some aspects depending on how you want to interpret the definition of "religion".

---

### complexity of finding definition for Religion


From what I read one important connection is he makes a note of there being no definite or universal definition of religion that is recognized by all. But instead there are multiple definitions. I can relate this back to what I know about how there is no definite or universal theory on how the world was created. Another important connection is when he mentions morality. Morals are very important to me and I always try to do what is right. Perhaps the most important connection I made is when he says "sacrifice may be an attempt to influence the sacred." This is perhaps the most important to me, because I see sacrifice as meaning "to give up or leave behind what is most sacred or of value to an individual." This is because I had to sacrifice things from my past in order to be able to move on in life.

--

I am surprised at how complex the sacred is. I also never connected 'holy' and 'sacred'. I always saw them as different words and never considered that they could be interchangeable.

--

In my experience, religion has always slightly puzzled me. This was increased after reading the two chapters. However, I did understand the significance of religion in relation to people because my father and my grandmother are both extremely religious and allow it to influence the entirety of their lives. On the other hand, it was difficult to connect these texts to other experiences I have had in classes or in school because teachers and students were never allowed to talk about religion since I went to public school. I felt I did understand the chapter on the sacred a little more though because each year on 9/11 my family and school always had a moment of silence to honor the victims. To me this was always a sacred act, something to be respected.

--

It shocked me how difficult it was to get a firm definition of religion and an understanding of sacred. Even though I never tried to form a firm definition, I never expected it to be so difficult. Upon trying to sort out the details of what the sacred is and what religion truly is I was faced with more confusion than answers. I understood then how many perspectives have to be considered in order to truly understand these things, because these terms affect so much more than one group or two groups of people. They can affect religious and nonreligious people alike and often in large ways. This shocked me because I do not consider myself a truly religious person but I was able to see the way religion and the nature of sacred affect me.

---



### Buddhism?


My first question is, Why does the bible say we have to fear God? I do not really get that part of this chapter. Another question is, What kind of religion is Buddhism? If that makes sense. i do not get how they believe that the belief in gods or God is a distraction and need to be downplayed, but they have a religion. That part is very confusing too.

---

### … and the ‘sacred’


When the reading says, "prayer or sacrifice may be seen as an attempt to influence sacred." I do not really understand this line, but I do know that many churches that i know of sacrifice and they take that seriously. Some churches fast for a month, some have night service to bring in the New Year's at church, and a lot of them give up things for lent.

---

### Ritual


What surprised me is how Korean people out ritual is done and that if it is successful the audience walk away feeling accomplished. I find it very weird that they depend on a woman, "Shaman", and her musicians dancing around and dancing on blades to determine rather they'll be getting their blessing or not.

---

### What will be done with the definitions?


I wonder if the definition the author decides to run with at the end of the chapter is one that is something that they will call back to in future chapters and explain more in detail as they go on, or at least will compare the definition to religions such as Christianity or Islam. It will be interesting to see if this is a concept that is brought up and evaluated consistently throughout the text or if the idea was more so to provide a simple definition that can be used to understand the rest of the chapters in the book without necessarily being something that is called back to.

---

### Depth of impact of ‘religion’


In most of my other classes we are just learning knowledge and cycling it away into our brains but rarely is it so active in and throughout our lives as religion is. This class is making me realize just how large and dense this topic is and how it connects to almost every aspect of our life and society today.

--

One of the things that surprised me during the readings was the amount of sacred texts there are. Many may think of just the bible or other large name scripts but there are far more than just the few. Also, just actually thinking about what makes a religion and what one actually is really surprised me because up until now Iv'e never been asked that or thought hard on it.

--

"If we apply this definition to all religions does it make some religions more “right” than others? How do nondenominational churches fit into this definition of religion? How does tradition play a part in making something religious? Would a different country have a completely different way of thinking about the term ‘religion’? Why do we need to define religion if it is different for everyone?"

---


### Individual & Social dimension


In the reading I was surprised by how he said it is possible to overstress the individual dimension of religion. My first ah ha moment from the reading was when he said Religion is a way of expressing important values. I was also surprised when he said the words ""sacred" and "holy" are used as equivalents." My other ah ha moment was when he said " the biblical story of Uzzah and the arc of covenant (II Samuel 6) provides a classic illustration of notions of the sacred.

---

### The Sacred


"Most things that are considered sacred have been around for many years, but what makes those things sacred in the first place? Can only religious things be considered sacred? For example, can the American flag be considered sacred in the patriotic sense?"

--

I grew up in a small baptist church down the street from my house. Growing up i was taught that there were things that were special to the church and to God also known as sacred. The church its self was to be treated as such and we were even suppose to give a certain amount of our money each week to the church. In the book it does not talk as much about the places people worship but people and things. As a child I remember learning the importance of the worship songs that we would sing. Over the summer a girl that i worked with was Muslim and was fasting. To her fasting was very important to her and her religion. I saw the effect of her not eating during the day. The dedication it took for her to only eat when the sun is down. To go to her church every night to pray then wake up super early in the morning to eat before work amazed me. This and the story shows that different religions qualify different things as sacred.

---

## The Sacred Quest (Chapter 1)

## Religious or Political?

- Morning Prayer at National Cathedral: singing, sermon, prayers
- Political rally at Washington Monument, led by a pastor, singing *God Bless America*

---

## Possible Definitions of Religion

(*James Martineau*)

Religion is the belief in an ever living God, that is, in a **Divine Mind and Will** ruling the Universe and holding moral relations with mankind .

Note:
21 April 1805 – 11 January 1900) was an English religious philosopher influential in the history of Unitarianism.

For 45 years he was Professor of Mental and Moral Philosophy and Political Economy in Manchester New College, the principal training college for British Unitarianism.


--

(*Friedrich Schleiermacher*)

Religion is the **feeling of absolute dependence** or the consciousness that the whole of our spontaneous activity comes from a source outside of us .

Note: 
November 21, 1768 – February 12, 1834) was a German theologian, philosopher, and biblical scholar known for his attempt to reconcile the criticisms of the Enlightenment with traditional Protestant Christianity. He also became influential in the evolution of Higher Criticism, and his work forms part of the foundation of the modern field of hermeneutics. Because of his profound effect on subsequent Christian thought, he is often called the "Father of Modern Liberal Theology" and is considered an early leader in liberal Christianity. The Neo-Orthodoxy movement of the twentieth century, typically (though not without challenge) seen to be spearheaded by Karl Barth, was in many ways an attempt to challenge his influence.

--

(*Anthony Wallace*)

Religion is a **set of rituals, rationalized by myth**, which mobilizes supernatural powers for the purpose of achieving or preventing transformations of state in man or nature .

Note:
(April 15, 1923 - October 5, 2015) was a Canadian-American anthropologist who specialized in Native American cultures, especially the Iroquois. His research expressed an interest in the intersection of cultural anthropology and psychology. He was famous for the theory of revitalization movements.[1]

--

(Emile *Durkheim*)

Religion is only **the sentiment inspired by the group in its members**, but projected outside of the consciousness that experiences them, and objectified .

Note:
April 15, 1858 – November 15, 1917) was a French sociologist, social psychologist and philosopher. He formally established the academic discipline and—with Karl Marx and Max Weber—is commonly cited as the principal architect of modern social science and father of sociology.[2][3]

--


(James G. *Frazer*)

Religion is a propitiation or conciliation of powers superior to man which are believed to direct and control the course of Nature and of human life .

**Other possible definitions?**

Note:
1 January 1854 – 7 May 1941), was a Scottish social anthropologist influential in the early stages of the modern studies of mythology and comparative religion.[2] He is often considered one of the founding fathers of modern anthropology.

His most famous work, The Golden Bough (1890), documents and details the similarities among magical and religious beliefs around the globe. Frazer posited that human belief progressed through three stages: primitive magic, replaced by religion, in turn replaced by science

--
(*William James*)

The very fact that there are so many (definitions of religion) … is enough to prove that the word “religion” cannot stand for any single principle or essence, but is rather a collective name … 


---

## A Definition of Religion

**cautious, recognizing that we cannot escape our own perspective** ... 
------------------
The very attempt to define religion, to find some distinctive or possibly unique essence or set of qualities that distinguish the "religious" from the remainder of human life, is primarily a Western concern. The attempt is a natural consequence of the Western speculative, intellectualistic, and scientific disposition. It is also the product of the dominant Western religious mode, what is called the Judeo-Christian climate or, more accurately, the theistic inheritance from Judaism, Christianity, and Islam. The theistic form of belief in this tradition, even when downgraded culturally, is formative of the dichotomous Western view of religion. That is, the basic structure of theism is essentially a distinction between a transcendent deity and all else, between the creator and his creation, between God and man.


<http://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Religion#Definitions>

---

## What's it made of?

## Elements of Religion

- Human thought
- Feeling
- Action
- Social interconnectedness
- Values
--

### Religion and Human Thought
Religion is intimately connected with human thought.
<li class="fragment">Even those who focus on practice have beliefs, develop doctrines, and emphasize the importance of certain teachings in the religious life essential to their way of life.</li>

--


### Religion and Feeling
To some extent, all religious experience is an emotional experience.
<li class="fragment">Friedrich Schleiermacher characterized religion as a feeling of absolute dependence. </li>
<li class="fragment">Rudolf Otto, characterized religion as the experience of the holy. And this experience is one that inspires feelings of fear, awe, terror, and love. </li>

--


### Religion and Action
While the form and place of religious action vary, the importance of action to an understanding of religion is evident.
 Examples of religious action:

<li class="fragment"> 1. Islam = the duty of prayer and *salat*</li>
<li class="fragment">2. Shinto = approach the shrine of kami by washing, ringing a bell, and clapping their handsa </li>
<li class="fragment">3. Roman Catholicism =  attend mass </li>

--



### Individual and Social Existence
*Most of the great religions make a place for individual devotion and encourage persons to search for union with the ultimate reality.**

But we must be careful not to overstress the individual dimension of religion.
<li class="fragment">- One of the most elementary components of religion is some emphasis on the idea of society. </li>
<li class="fragment">- Thus, the essence of religion is the ways in which it enables individual persons to identify with the values associated with a particular group. </li>

--


### Values and Religion
In most times and places, religion has been closely connected with morality.
<li class="fragment">- To some, religion confirms the moral law and gives one power to perform one's duty. </li>
<li class="fragment">- Religion is a way of expressing important societal values. </li>

<li class="fragment">For example, when believers in various settings pray or offer sacrifices to honor God, or to ward off spirits that threaten tribal unity, they express their sense of what is important in life.
 </li>

---

## What kind of stuff? : Substance or Function?

### Functionalist Definition of Religion
- Focuses on the role religion plays in the lives of persons and groups.
- Might focus on the ways religion enables people to sustain hope in the face of difficult circumstances.
- “Functionalist” understands **religion** to have to with the role it plays ordering, making sense, of human existence

--

### Substantive Definition of Religion
- Attempts to limit the phenomena that may be characterized as religious.
- Seeks to identify what it is that makes certain responses to death and suffering religious and others not.
- “Substantive” recognizes that **religion** is to be contrasted with the many other … isms or ways of thought etc. that function to make life bearable, ordered, etc. (cf. Martineau's definition above)

--

### Definition must be both

- Considerations of function are necessary but not sufficient to the task of defining religion.
- But an adequate definition of religion must include a substantive component.
- Thus, **any adequate definition of religion must account for both the function and substance of religion.**

1. Religion and politics overlap but are not the same
2. Religion and morality overlap but are not the same
3. religion and science overlap but are not the same
4. … history?

---

## A Proposed Definition

--

### Religion signifies those ways of viewing the world that refer to:

1. a notion of sacred reality
2. made manifest in human experience
3. in such a way as to produce long-lasting ways of thinking, feeling, and acting
4. with respect to problems of ordering and understanding existence

---


### A Notion of Sacred Reality

- A **notion of sacred reality establishes a boundary between religion and non-religion.**
- **Sacred** indicates a reality that is somehow distinct, set apart, other than **ordinary**.
- Sacred reality includes the God of the **Bible**, the **Qur'anic Allah**, the **Brahman** of Hinduism, Buddhism's **Nirvana**, the **kami** of Shinto.

--


## Manifest in Human Experience

- Although the sacred is set apart from the ordinary, it nevertheless may be experienced, thought about, and acted upon.
- Thus, all religion has to do with the element of the **sacred manifesting itself in various ways**: in rituals, persons, and natural phenomena. 

-----------------

1. Muslims = the sacred reality (**Allah**) is made manifest through prophecy
2. Buddhists = the goal of **Nirvana** comes to life in the life and teaching of the Buddha
3. Navaho = the story of the Navaho people makes wisdom available for those who seek harmony between all things.

--


## Long-Lasting Ways of Thinking and Feeling

- Religious ways develop over time.  And they come to constitute traditions that may be identified with the history of particular communities.
- For example, the prophecy of Muhammad is the beginning of the tradition of Islam.

	- Islam's message and the story of its revelation in seventh-century Arabia have produced characteristic modes of thought, feeling, and action among a large percentage of the world's population.

--


## Ordering and Understanding Existence

- Stresses the way in which notions of sacred reality are related to problems of suffering and death.
- Also stresses the way in which notions of sacred reality are related to other problems; such as the ordering of political or economic life.

---

<div id="footnotes">
<h4 class="footnotes">Footnotes: </h2>
<div id="text-footnotes">

<div class="footdef"><sup><a id="fn.1" name="fn.1" class="footnum" href="#fnr.1">1</a></sup> The Sacred Quest, Lawrence S. Cunningham & John Kelsay</div>


</div>
</div>

